(1)
Bob Woodward secretly met in an underground parking garage in Rosslyn, Virginia with this man, whose
family acknowledged his identity in 2005. For ten points each,
Identify this former deputy Director of the FBI, whose leaks helped Woodward and his partner at the Washington
Post, Carl Bernstein, uncover a Presidential conspiracy. His real name and his nickname are both acceptable.

Deep Throat helped Woodward and Bernstein untangle this scandal, which stemmed from a burglary at a
Washington, D.C. office complex.

The Watergate scandal forced this US President to resign in 1974. His successor, Gerald Ford, controversially
pardoned him a month later.

(2)
The Wikipedia article for this substance compares its viscosity to ketchup, but geologists probably haven’t
tested that by pouring it out of a glass bottle. For ten points each,
Give this term for molten rock that has emerged onto or above the surface of the crust.

Among the types of lava are pahoehoe [pa-ho-ay-ho-ay], whose surface is billowing and smooth, and this type, with
a craggly surface of “clinkers”. This name also has a Hawaiian derivation.

Lava that cools very rapidly without growing crystals may form this rock, often described as volcanic glass because
it can break apart into sheets with sharp edges.

(3)
The highest mountain in Western Europe, Mont Blanc, is in the western part of this range. For ten points each,
Name this European mountain range. Mont Blanc lies on the border between Italy and France, before this range
stretches to Switzerland.

This major European river has its source in the Swiss Alps; it then flows north, creates much of the border between
France and Germany, and empties into the North Sea in the Netherlands.

This iconic, pyramid-shaped Alpine peak lies on the border between Switzerland and Italy. Hundreds of climbers
have died on this peak, including four members of the first team to summit it in 1911.

(4)
The superstitious composer Gustav Mahler steadfastly refused to give his Song of the Earth its rightful status as
a numbered symphony because, having seen what happened to men like Anton Bruckner and Franz Schubert, he
was afraid of this number. For ten points each,
Name this number, the subject of a supposed “curse” on the composers of symphonies.

The “curse of the ninth” is said to have started with this German composer, who was totally deaf when he conducted
the premier of his Choral ninth symphony.

Before he succumbed to the curse of the ninth, Beethoven gave a massive concert in December 1808 where he
premiered his Pastoral Symphony and this piece. This symphony doesn’t have a nickname, but it does feature
Beethoven’s famous “short-short-short-long” motif.

(5)
The animals in class Chordata [kor-DAH-tuh] are mostly grouped into the tunicates and these animals. For ten
points each,
Name this subphylum whose animals, including fish, mammals, and birds, all have backbones.

Almost all vertebrates are members of Gnathostomata [NATH-oh-sto-MAH-ta] because they have this body part,
but some fish - such as hagfish, lampreys, and many long-extinct fish - don’t have one.

Most - but not all! - fish lack these body parts, instead using gills to filter oxygen out of water. Pneumonia is a
condition affecting the alveoli in this organ.

(6)
Answer the following about murderous short stories by Edgar Allan Poe, for ten points each.
In one Poe short story, Montresor bricks Fortunato into a cellar wall after luring him in by promising him a “Cask
of” this title wine.

This short story’s narrator plots to kill his housemate to rid himself of the man’s vulture-like eye, only to give
himself away by tearing up his floorboards to reveal his dismembered victim to the police.

In this short story, Prospero tries desperately to avoid death, but is nonetheless killed in front of an ebony clock by a
supernatural embodiment of this story’s title sickness.

(7)
This empire’s religion worshipped the creator god Viracocha and revered its legendary founder, Manco Capac. ´
For ten points each,
Name this pre-Columbian empire in South America, where Manco Capac was credited with founding the capital ´
city of Cuzco.

In some stories, Manco Capac was the son of Inti, the Incan sun god, who was worshipped in this Incan city high in ´
the Andes Mountains in modern Peru.
ANSWER: Machu Picchu
As the son of Inti, Manco Capac is said to have arisen from this major lake in the Andes, shared by modern Peru ´
and Bolivia.

(8)
A nineteenth-century poem about this ancient author describes the emotions felt “On first looking into” this
man’s works, as translated by George Chapman. For ten points each,
Name this Greek poet, whose attributed works include an epic poem about the Trojan War, the Iliad.

“On First Looking into Chapman’s Homer” is by a poet who also wrote an “Ode on a Grecian” object of this type.
In the poem, this object is held up as the proof that “beauty is truth, truth beauty.”

“On First Looking into Chapman’s Homer” and “Ode on a Grecian Urn” are poems by this English Romantic poet
who had a rivalry with Lord Byron.

(9)
A player in this game, “KleinTsuboi,” became known as “Let Me Solo Her” for joining games to fight Malenia,
Blade of Miquella for other players while wearing a pot on his head. For ten points each,
Name this 2022 open-world R.P.G. FromSoftware game distributed by Bandai Namco.

To commemorate his popularity among Elden Ring fans, Bandai sent Klein one of these bladed weapons inscribed
with “Rise,Tarnished.” Klein fights Malenia with two katanas, which are a type of this weapon.

The worldbuilding behind Malenia and other characters in Elden Ring was done with the help of this American
author of A Song of Ice and Fire.

(10)
The 643 Edict of Rothari forbids killing those believed to be this type of person, because “Christian minds”
should not believe that this type of person exists. For ten points each,
Name this type of supernatural person. Medieval “hunts” for these people were often just excuses to harass and kill
unpopular women.

German Heinrich Kramer wrote this 15th century text, which argues that witchcraft is a heresy that needs to be
punished via burning at the stake. This book’s Latin name indicates that this work’s knowledge is a weapon that can
be used to fight witches.

Malleus Maleficarum heavily cites this Scholastic thinker, a 13th century saint of the Catholic Church. This author’s
Summa Theologica is a massive guide to Catholic theology.

(11)
This novel’s title character reads too many romantic novels, convinces himself that he’s a knight, and rides
around on his elderly horse, Rocinante, getting into trouble. For ten points each,
Name this Spanish novel by Miguel de Cervantes [ser-VON-tays] about a man who attacks windmills because he
imagines they’re giants.

Don Quijote [don kee-HOH-tay] is accompanied on his misguided adventures by this man, his long-suffering
servant.
While traveling with Don Quijote, Sancho Panza rides Dapple, a gray-brown one of these long-eared, horse-like
animals.
(12)
This god is the father of Kartikeya and Ganesha, whose head he cut off in order to reach Parvati. For ten points
each,
Name this destroyer god often depicted with a blue throat he got from drinking the halahala poison.

Shiva is revered in Shaivism, a major denomination of this Indian religion.

With Brahma and Vishnu, Shiva forms this group of three gods in Hinduism.

(13)
According to folklore, this event was “signalled” by the coded announcement “this meeting can do nothing
further to save the country.” For ten points each,
Name this 1773 riot in which protestors boarded the Eleanor, the Dartmouth, and the Beaver and dumped their
cargo into a harbor.

This patriot and cousin of a future President gave the supposedly coded message at the meeting that preceded the
Tea Party.

The British responded to the Boston Tea Party by closing the Port of Boston and revoking the charter of
Massachusetts, each of which was part of this set of acts. These acts sought to punish all Bostonians, not just the
perpetrators.

(14)
Dutch painter Piet Mondrian [PEET MON-dree-yon] created Broadway Boogie-Woogie with these colors
among thick black lines and white squares. For ten points each,
Give the term that refers to the pigments red, yellow, and blue.

Mondrian’s late works, like Broadway Boogie-Woogie, are the geometric form of this type of work, contrasted with
realistic art. Mondrian represented ideas instead of images of reality.

In the 1960s, Mondrian’s work was adapted by Yves Saint Laurent [EEV sawn lah-RAWN] into this art form. The
adaptation transformed Mondrian’s geometric designs into A-line works in this art form.

(15)
This man suffered from indigestion, lust-driven insomnia, and a general distaste for how downright informal
Americans were during this 1909 trip to the United States. For ten points each,
Name this Austrian thinker whose theories of psychoanalysis became decidedly more popular in the US than in
Europe.

Freud was one of several thinkers invited by Clark University to speak in America; another was this colleague, who
coined the theory of the “collective unconscious” and recommended that Freud cheat on his wife in order to get
some sound sleep. Freud declined.

Freud’s lectures in America were largely based on his 1899 work on The Interpretation of these unconscious events,
which mainly occur during REM sleep. Freud complained of having awful examples of these events during his
American trip.

(16)
These substances are classified as “strong” or “weak” based on whether it completely dissociates into its ions,
not - as commonly misunderstood by beginning chemistry students - on how good it is at reacting with bases. For
ten points each,
Give this term for solutions with a pH value less than 7.

The concentration of an unknown acid can be judged by this lab technique, in which drops of a known base are
slowly added to the solution. An indicator is then used to determine changes in pH.

This strong acid is commonly used in high school titration labwork because it is relatively safe to handle. The
extremely low pH of gastric juices is due to this acid.

(17)
Give the following about the traditional order of operations in arithmetic, for ten points each.
Multiplication comes before addition in the order of operations because multiplication is repeated addition;
similarly, this operation of repeated multiplication comes before multiplication and division.

These symbols are used to escape the normal order of operations; that is, “3 plus 4 minus 5” will be different if
these symbols are placed around the “4 minus 5”.

With that said - addition has this property, so “3 plus 4 plus 5” gives the same result even if you do put parentheses
around two of the numbers. Multiplication also has this property, but subtraction does not.

(18)
American author Ambrose Bierce frequently wrote about this conflict, during which he fought in the 9th
Indiana Infantry. For ten points each,
Name this war. In Bierce’s short story “Chickamauga,” a small deaf boy unknowingly sleeps through an 1863 battle
that was one of this war’s bloodiest.

Bierce also wrote “What I Saw of” this 1862 battle of the Civil War, during which he actually fought. The short
story gives a soldier’s view of Grant’s victory at this Tennessee battle, which was also called Pittsburg Landing.

In a short story titled “An Occurrence at” this place, Confederate civilian Payton Farquhar [FAR-kwar], who is
executed by the Union for trying to sabotage the title structure.

(19)
Give the following about the myriad ways that western colonization of Australia ruined things, for ten points
each.
Most obviously, colonizers sought to assimilate or remove these indigenous people of mainland Australia.

In 1859, Thomas Austin released 24 of these animals into Australia, assuming they could do little harm; they had no
predators and bred very quickly. Within 50 years, Western Australia started building a 2,000-mile-long fence meant
to keep these creatures out.

In 1932, Western Australia deployed machine gunners to deal with these flightless birds. The attempts didn’t really
prevent farm losses, so Australia infamously lost the “War” against these birds.

(20)
This type of wave is audible if its frequency is between 20 and 20,000 Hertz. For ten points each,
Name this phenomenon whose vibrations travel through room temperature air at roughly 3443 meters per second.

The intensity of a sound wave is measured in this logarithmic unit, which also has several applications in electronics.
A jet engine’s noise commonly registers 140 of these units.

While moving through air, sound waves are classified as this type of wave, because the medium moves perpendicular
to the motion of the wave. In the main alternative, a transverse wave, the medium moves in parallel.