(1) Moseley’s law disproved a theory arguing that these things have randomly distributed corpuscles.
John Dalton coined the name of these things and used them to explain his law of definite proportions. The
Greek philosopher (*) Democritus is credited as the inventor of the “theory” of these things, whose name means
“indivisible” in Greek. Niels Bohr and Ernest Rutherford theorized that a nucleus is at the center of, for ten points,
what small building blocks of matter?

(2) In this country, a protected dirt road out of Morondava is known as the Avenue of the Baobabs. The
islands of Mayotte and Comoros lie northwest of this country, and the islands of Reunion and Mauritius are ´
off its east coast. (*) Malagasy is the official language of this country, which is separated by the Mozambique
Channel from the mainland. For ten points, name this southern African country with capital Antananarivo that
controls the fourth largest island in the world.

(3) This man lamented a “total and unmitigated defeat” in the House of Commons shortly before a vote to
approve the Munich Agreement. This man rued that Soviet influence extended to a (*) line “from Stettin in
the Baltic to Trieste in the Adriatic,” which he called the “iron curtain.” The “Finest Hour” and “Blood, Toil, Tears,
and Sweat” speeches were also delivered by, for ten points, what Prime Minister of the UK during World War II?

(4) This religion’s central philosophy includes reciting the Shahada, a statement of faith, and performing
prompt and sincere alms-giving called Zakat. The (*) Hadith of Jibreel summarizes this religion’s Five Pillars,
which include fasting that is performed during this religion’s holy month of Ramadan and five daily prayers. For ten
points, name this Abrahamic religion whose founding prophet is Muhammad.

(5) This author wrote about a “Rafter of Satin and Roof of Stone” that cover “the meek members of the
Resurrection” in one poem, and described “Mourners to and fro” in the poem “I felt a (*) Funeral, in my
Brain.” This poet of “Safe in their Alabaster Chambers” described being Somebody in the poem “I’m Nobody! Who
are you?” For ten points, name this “Belle of Amherst,” the American poet who wrote about a “blue - uncertain -
stumbling Buzz” in the poem “I heard a Fly buzz - when I died.”

(6) A parody of this painting is titled L.H.O.O.Q., which is a pun in French, and was created by Marcel
Duchamp by adding a moustache to this painting. A French nickname for this painting refers to its subject,
who may be the wife of Francesco del (*) Giocondo, and to her smile. Some analysts think this painting once had
fine eyebrows, which have worn away over time. For ten points, name this painting held in the Louvre art museum,
a portrait of a woman made by Leonardo Da Vinci.

(7) The coefficient of this non-conservative force equals the tangent of the angle of repose and is symbolized
muk [mew sub k] or mus [mew sub s]. This force exerts the only torque on a spinning bicycle wheel, and it
is directed (*) up the incline for a block on a hill. Lubricants minimize this force, which releases heat and causes
electrostatic buildup when two objects rub against each other. Braking relies on, for ten points, what force that
resists motion?

(8) This song’s music video opens with a red title card that reads “me and my friends visit my ex’s house
(smiley face).” This song loses its first chorus and adds harder guitars in its (*) “angrier” version. Another
version of this song says that, except for “your dog, / you can all get lost.” For ten points, name this 2022 song by
Gayle whose “nicer” version says “forget you / and your mom and your sister and your job” after listing the first
letters of the alphabet.

(9) The use of mercury amalgamations to do this work has, to this day, contaminated the Siskiyou Trail and
other areas. A sluice [sloos] box, a rocker, or a (*) pan are typically used in the “placer” type of this activity,
which was common along the American River after James Marshall’s discovery there in 1848. A find at Sutter’s
Mill inspired hundreds of thousands of “forty-niners” to try their luck with, for ten points, what work, the harvesting
of a certain precious metal, in California?

(10) This novel’s protagonist declares, “by a toll of a billion deaths man has bought his birthright of the
earth” while looking at fifty bodies in St Edmund’s Terrace. This novel’s antagonists change the landscape
by spreading a (*) “red weed” and command tripods equipped with heat rays to destroy humanity, but are killed
because they have no immune resistance to Earth viruses. For ten points, name this novel by H.G. Wells in which
Martians invade England.

(11) This scientist legendarily quipped “And yet it moves” while under house arrest for writing Dialogue
Concerning the Two Chief World Systems. This scientist first described the phases of Venus and sunspots using
the (*) refracting telescope, which he invented. This man also discovered Callisto, Io, Ganymede, and Europa,
four moons of Jupiter named for him. For ten points, name this Italian physicist who agreed with Copernicus’
heliocentric model of the solar system.

(12) To memorialize his lover Leuce, this deity either turned her into a poplar tree or created the Elysian
Fields. This deity’s affair with Minthe angered his wife, who turned her into a mint plant. This god this
first-born son of (*) Cronus and Rhea, and after the Titanomachy, he divided the world with his two brothers. This
god uses Cerberus to protect his realm, where he sometimes keeps his wife, Persephone. For ten points, name this
Greek god of the underworld.

(13) Owen Roberts chaired the commission that investigated this event, finding that Husband Kimmel was
derelict in his duty. Because translation of the (*) Fourteen-Part Message was slow, this event officially took
place without a formal declaration of war, against the wishes of Admiral Yamamoto. The “day of infamy” speech to
Congress followed, for ten points, what December 7th, 1941 sneak attack by Japan against a naval base in Hawaii?

(14) This instrument was played by James Johnson, Fats Waller, and Art Tatum, who all popularized its
stride style. The composer of “Round Midnight” and “Straight, No Chaser,” Thelonious Monk, played this
instrument, as did (*) Duke Ellington. In jazz, players of this instrument will often support a soloist by “comping”
with the left hand. The drums and bass in a jazz rhythm section are often joined by, for ten points, what keyboard
instrument?

(15) Literature in this genre can be cataloged in the Perry Index and was collected by Jean de La Fontaine.
One of these works contrasts the simplicity of the country with the dangers of the city in the lives of two (*)
mice, and is often collected with two of these works commonly called “The Ant and the Grasshopper” and “The
Tortoise and the Hare.” For ten points, name these short stories, many of which are credited to Aesop, that tell a
simple story and try to teach a moral.

(16) The investigation into this man’s death found pellet damage at a Nara parking garage, which was
revealed to be the result of a test of the murder weapon the previous day. The motive for this man’s murder
was his supposed link to the (*) Unification Church, which bankrupted the murderer’s mother. In July 2022,
two rounds were fired from a homemade, shotgun-like device at this man. Tetsuya Yamagami assassinated, for ten
points, what former Prime Minister of Japan?

(17) This is the surface area of Gabriel’s horn. The cardinality of an uncountable set is some form of this
concept, while “aleph null”, the cardinality of the natural numbers, is the smallest type of this concept.
Hilbert’s (*) Grand Hotel thought experiment involves this many hotel rooms and this many customers. A
lemniscate is the symbol for, for ten points, what mathematical concept of limitlessness, a value greater than any
given whole number?

(18) In this short novel, Belle rejects the protagonist because he has replaced her with “a golden idol,” and a
shape-shifting creature visits a dance at Mr Fezziwig’s shop. After confronting a specter who shows him his
own (*) grave, this novel’s protagonist orders a turkey to be taken to Bob Cratchit and his son, Tiny Tim. For ten
points, name this short novel by Charles Dickens in which Ebenezer Scrooge learns to be kind and generous during
a winter holiday.

(19) This person’s political rise began after protesting the 1919 Rowlett Act with a hartal, a form of striking.
After this person’s letter to Lord Irwin was ignored, he led a march to Dandi, where his followers illegally
made (*) salt. Nathuram Godse, angry over this man’s apparent support for Muslims over Hindus, assassinated
him in 1948. Satyagraha was the political philosophy of, for ten points, what non-violent activist who advocated for
Indian independence?

(20) These organisms are conventionally classified as being spherical, comma-shaped, rod-shaped, or
spiral-shaped. These organisms are also classified by how they react with crystal violet, a dye that binds
tightly to their peptidoglycan cell (*) walls in a Gram stain. These organisms and Archaea make up the two
prokaryotic domains of life. Antibiotics target, for ten points, what single-celled organisms, examples of which
include Salmonella and E. coli?